TOPSody 2.0065E3
Ubercomposer: Daniel Eisner
Discocomposers: Difei Chen, Frank Zhao, Jiun-Ruey Hu
Emeritus Composer: Yi Yao

TOPSody 2.0065E3 was inspired mostly by the yearly major trips in TOPS, although there are some elements taken from the rest of the TOPS program.

The first trip is Pinecrest, where the new grade 9s are encouraged to get acquainted for the 4 years of upcoming work they will have to get through together. Pinecrest is a fun trip, despite the sounds in the opening of the piece. It must be considered, however, that the piece was written from the viewpoint of a senior, who might not remember the fun they had at Pinecrest (because there's fun in TOPS spread all around) but will definitely remember their first impressions of the people they now know so well. The opening measures are fully composed of the dominant chord. This is clearly evident by measure 7, when all notes are part of the dominant seventh chord. At the beginning it is hard to tell as so many of the notes are missing or in strange augmentations and inversions. The idea is that out of the quantum foam of a bunch of random strangers coalesces well defined friendships. A and B represent the comparatively leisurely times TOPS students have after they meet, up until the next major trip, Algonquin.

Algonquin looms over the horizon in the middle of grade 10, C. Pioneered by a man who is all about work, the trip is all about work. Not to say that man and trip are not fun or friendly, but the idea behind Algonquin is to get to do some work. Everything else is just what is inevitably taken everywhere. The trip contains a fair amount of hiking, usually over fifteen kilometers a day. D, E, and F represent this as a march. A minor key was used because Algonquin is the only trip that isn't mainly for fun; the contrast was needed and an all-major piece would be musically less interesting. Section G is an "eye of the storm" idea, and after Algonquin there is some time for rest before the associated project is due.

Grade 11, the "work year", can also be tied in with the Algonquin project as it happens around the same time; summertime is not included in the composition. As grade 11 is not a trip, the same Algonquin theme was still used at H to continue the story.

The grade 11 trip is Wanakita, which is designed to provide relief from the work. I, J, and K (3-space unit vectors!) are a pleasant waltz theme articulated first in a glockenspiel duet, then with woodwinds, then with brass.

The grade 12 trip is mostly for fun, but has taken on an architectural theme. This is a good bridge between the sciences and maths taught in TOPS, while also containing lots of artistic ideas which appeal to the many artists in TOPS. But the trip is simply a trip to somewhere. Because of it's lack of form, the idea of grade 12 as a whole and graduating was used instead.

Section L is a circle of fourths ornamented with some motifs from before. At the Eb major chord just before M, the grade 12 seniors have metamorphosized into fully-fledged TOPS graduates, and begin to reminisce about their past. A marching theme is used in most of the rest of the piece -- a walk of victory of sorts. M and N are based on the Wanakita theme from I, J, and K. O and P is based on the Algonquin theme, now in major because no work has to be done anymore and only the fond memories remain. The 4 measures before Q are a reference to pi; see if you can find it. Musically they serve as a transition. Q is slower, perhaps slightly like Pinecrest, but more intended as the embodiment of the victory walk. At R is a definite reference to Pinecrest, and just about the whole piece. S is a faster version of Q, and T is a faster version of S. Some of the ideas from Q are lost but are replaced with triumphant fanfarish triads. But real people don't usually go out with a big bang. U is (other than another summary of the whole piece) the final goodbye; the final "...sign my yearbook?"